Hello welcome back to the course on statistics in today's tutorial we will see.
The central limit theorem in practice.
So it's going to be our first step of seeing it in practice.
We're not going to be solving a business challenge yet but we'll see how it all comes to be.
We'll see.
Will be using this tool here which will help us visualize the process of how the central limit theorem
works.
So you can find this tool at our online stat book dot com slash stat or score sim for simulator site
sampling underscored just a session index that he mailed and a shout out to the people behind this for
creating this amazing tool.
So let's have a look.
Here we've got a distribution which is a normal distribution and we're going to be creating our sample
or our sampling distributions here all the sample mean.
So no it's not fun to work with a normal distribution because we can is still the central limit theorem
still applies to your original description on distribution.
But we want to prove a point we want to show that it will still work we will still get a normal distribution
for the sampling mean for the sampling distribution once with whatever original description we have.
So that's why here you can actually draw.
So let's roll something let's let's draw a distribution of our own kind what ever we want so you can
open up this tool and just draw your distribution.
So here we can we see the distribution with like four parts to it.
Maybe let's cut this down a little bit.
There we go.
So now we can see something that you can draw absolutely any type of distribution you like.
And now we're going to be going through the process so here you can see that you've got the mean 13:26.
There it is.
That's our mean.
So what the central limit theorem says is that if we start taking samples from this distribution and
then taking the mean of each of those samples and then putting them plotting them on their own distribution
then we will slowly have a normal distribution which is centered around that same mean.
All right so let's have a look with our and is set to five here.
You can change it if you want.
You can change it to whatever number you want.
And that is that is the size of your sample.
So there's a few parameters that are involved here.
This is how many elements you're going to take from this distribution in and inside every single sample.
And then the buttons here they tell you how many samples you want to take.
So I was going to click this one button and we will take one sample.
So there we go we're taking one sample which has five elements and that is the mean.
So you can see it randomly took values from this distribution 1 2 3 4 5 and that is the mean.
Here's another one.
One two three four five.
There it is.
So as you can see that's our series starting to build something solid.
Another one two three four five go.
Either one yes.
This Keep going.
So you can see it's slowly starting to build up so it's just sitting here and doing one at a time.
So there that's another five I clicked it twice.
We can do.
You can see that your reps done five.
We can do it.
We can just do five right away.
We're going to 5 5 5 so you can see already something's starting to build in this area.
So I mean is blue and there we're building something in this area already.
Let's keep building so.
To join the 5 5 5 5 5 and so on.
So as you can see it's slowly starting to build up as solid is starting to look more and more like a
normal distribution and you can see how the mean here is changing how the median standard deviation
Well we're not that interested in the median right now we're just talking about means that deviation
you can see the mean is slowly coming closer and closer to the mean here.
And as I remember Stand deviation will be.
It should be this that deviation divide by the square root of 5.
So because we have five in our sample here.
So keep building keep building keep building.
So there's a 10000 to 10000 You can see it's very close or a normal distribution.
All right so there we go.
Let's do another one let's say.
So that here is a thirteen point sixteen point eighty six and if you take a stand deviation of nine
point fifty two and you divide by square five you will get four point twenty five we can check out on
the calculator.
All right.
So what is the square root of five.
That's the number two point twenty three.
And so if we now take two point two three six.
So if we take nine point fifty two.
Nine point fifty two divided by two point two three six 4.2 five seven four point five.
There we go so exactly that is is not theoretical This is actually empirical it's just happening as
we're doing rather than just a calculation and then we just confirmed with the calculation which is
cool.
OK so what do we also do.
Can we do here.
Let's clear the lower three are affecting our distribution.
And now what we want to do is let's change it to.
Of five Let's take two let's see what happens so every inside our every sample is only going to be two
blocks.
So here is where you can actually not necessarily break the the concept but it's not going to be as
accurate so if you take 10000 You can see that it's much harder for it to conform to that normal distribution
because simply because as you can imagine by taking two samples it's very very hard just to get all
of the whole range of these values and is going to just take longer but C in some cases it will just
it just might not be possible to obtain the normal attrition just because the sample sample size itself
is very small so you can see like it's trying but this is kind of like a precaution to not set the sample
size to two but as soon as you go like five or even 10 10 is usually enough for any kind of distribution
you might have here.
So anything you might Droi here 10 is usually going to be enough in order to make it a normal distribution
in the long run.
So you might have something like that completely random completely strange.
You have like completely empty values here.
So let's have a look at that.
So if you take animator's you taking 10 this time and then you get this you know that's you mean you
know what.
Let's clear this and let's do the zoomin 10 here and the zoo five here and see how they you can do them
at the same time let's see how the hully compare.
So we do fine so we're going to do 10 here
and then this is five I think.
That's five for that one so.
So this is going to be taking a sample for this chart and this is taking a sample sample and the average
for that.
So we do five at a time.
You can see like this one is already at I mean a 1093 this one's 15 18.
Not too bad but getting there.
So slowly building up you can see it's it's much harder for these guys to build a normal distribution
this central in that room versus the central limit there.
There's a 10000 You can see that this was good doing.
Not that bad actually.
100000.
OK.
Well it looks like a normal distribution not ideal but already looks close.
So if we were to change this to something else if we increase this even further than our would be even
better.
So let's clear them this too.
So 10 apparently is not.
It still looks like an odd description but not ideal.
So if we do 10000 now you can see there you go.
And you can also see what we discussed before so is a 10 here 20 here and 25 for instance.
And around 10000 You can see that when you increase n this distribution becomes more becomes narrower.
Right.
So another 10000 you see this one is a bit wider This one is a bit narrower or less to less clear lower
three and as do I 16.
So there you can see the big difference here.
So this one is wider and this one is narrower and that is speaking to the standard deviation and vision
here is three division here is two point forty five.
Well that's because our sample size is twenty five here so here are some revisions twelve point thirty
to get this standard deviation need to divide by the square root of 16 which is four.
That's why they have these numbers here 16:25.
It's worldwide by square of 16 which is four it gets three so you get about 3 over here and here divide
by a square of twenty five which is five.
So twelve point thirty two I'd buy five.
He had two point forty five.
So and that shows exactly that that when our sample size is higher our resulting normal distribution
is going to be narrower.
So there you go that's a really cool tool to visualize what's what's going on in the world of the Central
Limit Theorem.
I hope you enjoy this story and make sure to check out this tool and play around with it for yourself
and that will really help you solidify this knowledge and kind of like have a visual anchor to remember
what the central limit theorem is all about.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next Tauriel.
Until then happy analyzing.